---
title: Reflection for Week 8 - Factors Affecting Student Motivation
date: 2017-03-04 00:07:45
tags: Education
---

<center><b> By Eliza (Yan Sun) </b></center>

This week, I read the article written by Jacqueline Norris-Holt, Motivation as a Contributing Factor in Second Language Acquisition. This paper firstly explores Gardner's social-educational model, which looks specifically at second language acquisition in a structured classroom setting, unlike the other studies that are did in a natural environment. Gardner also indicates s number of factors that are interrelated when learning second language.<!-- more --> In his social-educational model, there are four interrelated features of second language acquisition, which are social and cultural milieu, individual learner differences, the setting or context in which learning takes place and linguistic outcomes (Gardner 1982). Based on author's idea, motivation has been divided into two, integrative motivation and instrumental motivation. Integrative motivation reveals the learner's positive attitude and their willing to become one of the target language country or community. On contrast, instrumental motivation is driven by outside factors, such as the reward, fame or social status, which are considered as a more functional reason for second language learning. In addition, the paper also discussed a study which was done in Japan where the students were found to possess instrumental motivation, because they are learning English for passing the exam. At the end of the paper, a few suggestions are given to the teacher. 
This paper really resonates with my own opinion. Just like how the author defined two different kind of motivation, motivators can also be classified as intrinsic motivators and extrinsic motivators. Intrinsic motivators have the autonomy to learn second language by themselves and they have the desire to integrate into the target language society. While they are learning the second language, they have a sense of belonging, which can motivate their learning in return. It is obvious that intrinsic learners are learning for the inherent joy, they can gain happiness from learning second language itself and remain focused even in what appears to be really adverse situations.. However, extrinsic motivators are more like passive receiver of second language acquisition. Most of the factors that can affect their motivation comes from outside, such as reward, fear of failure or punishment, gain of reputation and fame. Usually, they are learning for a reward or to please others. What's more, extrinsic motivators rely heavily on extrinsic factors and if those are not favorable, they become demotivated and easily lose focus. 
As far as I'm concerned, these two kinds of motivation are all valid when the second language learner could identify themselves as the right position. To be honest, I'm an extrinsic motivator who found it hard to learn second language with the inner drive. To some extent, I'm learning English because I love western culture and love to communicate with foreign people. But even more than this, I wish I can find a job related to English since It is easier to find a well-paid job if you are fluent in English. I admit that I'm driven by the benefit that English can bring to me. However, what I want to highlight is that although I'm not an intrinsic motivator, I can still learn English well. Since there are many second language learners like me, teachers should use different ways to motivate the learners and use different pedagogical approaches toward different target students. 


###### References:
Gardner, R.C. (1982). Language attitudes and language learning. In E. Bouchard Ryan & H. Giles, Attitudes towards language variation (pp. 132-147). Edward Arnold. 
(n.d.), (2015). Factors Affecting Student Motivation. Retrieved from http://hubpages.com/education/Selfmotivationforsuccess